It's highly probable you have Jugular Vein Thrombosis because you tested 100% positive for
    Fever
    Light headedness
    Headache
    Neck and face swelling
    Skin Discoloration


Internal jugular (IJ) vein thrombosis refers to an intraluminal thrombus occurring anywhere from the intracranial IJ vein to the junction of the IJ and the subclavian vein to form the brachiocephalic vein. It is an underdiagnosed condition that may occur as a complication of head and neck infections, surgery, central venous access, local malignancy, polycythemia, hyperhomocysteinemia, neck massage, and intravenous (IV) drug abuse. It is also reported to occur spontaneously.

Currently, with the widespread use of the IJ vein for venous access, central venous catheters are the most common underlying cause of IJ thrombosis. Of concern is a trend reflecting a growing number of IV drug abusers who present with IJ thrombosis secondary to repeated drug injection directly into the IJ vein. Other causes include local malignancies and head, neck, and cardiac surgical procedures. Rare causes include polycythemia, hyperhomocysteinemia, and neck massage.

IJ thrombosis itself can have serious potentially life-threatening complications, including systemic sepsis, chylothorax, papilledema, airway edema, and pulmonary embolism (PE). Secondary infection of the thrombosis may result in septic thrombophlebitis. An infected IJ thrombus caused by extension of an oropharyngeal infection is referred to as Lemierre syndrome; this has also been termed necrobacillosis or postanginal septicemia.

The diagnosis often is highly challenging and requires, first and foremost, a high degree of clinical suspicion. The best approach to making the diagnosis once suspicion is raised has not been definitively established.

The morbidity and mortality of IJ vein thrombosis are comparable to those of upper-extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT); accordingly, consideration should be given to treating these two entities in a similar fashion.

Thrombolytic treatment has rarely been used to treat IJ vein thrombosis.

For patient education resources, see the Lung Disease and Respiratory Health Center, as well as Pulmonary Embolism, Venous Access Devices, Phlebitis, and Blood Clot in the Legs.