Acute myocardial infarction is the medical name for a heart attack. 
A heart attack is a life-threatening condition that occurs when blood flow to the heart muscle is abruptly cut off, causing tissue damage. 
This is usually the result of a blockage in one or more of the coronary arteries. 
A blockage can develop due to a buildup of plaque, a substance mostly made of fat, cholesterol, and cellular waste products.

What are the symptoms of acute myocardial infarction?
While the classic symptoms of a heart attack are chest pain and shortness of breath, the symptoms can be quite varied. The most common symptoms of a heart attack include:

pressure or tightness in the chest
pain in the chest, back, jaw, and other areas of the upper body that lasts more than a few minutes or that goes away and comes back
shortness of breath
sweating
nausea
vomiting
anxiety
a cough
dizziness
a fast heart rate
It’s important to note that not all people who have heart attacks experience the same symptoms or the same severity of symptoms. Chest pain is the most commonly reported symptom among both women and men. However, women are more likely than men to have:

shortness of breath
jaw pain
upper back pain
lightheadedness
nausea
vomiting
In fact, some women who have had a heart attack report that their symptoms felt like the symptoms of the flu.


How can acute myocardial infarction be prevented?
There are many steps you can take to prevent a heart attack, even if you’ve had one before.

One way to lower your risk is to eat a heart-healthy diet. This diet should largely consist of:

whole grains
vegetables
fruits
lean protein
You should also reduce the amount of the following in your diet:

sugar
saturated fat
trans fat
cholesterol

This is especially important for people with diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol.
Exercising several times a week will also improve your cardiovascular health. If you’ve had a heart attack recently, you should speak with your doctor before starting a new exercise plan.
It’s also important to stop smoking if you smoke. Quitting smoking will significantly lower your risk of a heart attack and improve both your heart and lung health. You should also avoid being around secondhand smoke.



