Renal vein thrombosis (RVT) is the formation of a clot in the vein that drains blood from the kidneys, ultimately leading to a reduction in the drainage of one or both kidneys and the possible migration of the clot to other parts of the body.[1] First described by German pathologist Friedrich Daniel von Recklinghausen in 1861, RVT most commonly affects two subpopulations: newly born infants with blood clotting abnormalities or dehydration and adults with nephrotic syndrome.[2]

Nephrotic syndrome, a kidney disorder, causes excessive loss of protein in the urine, low levels of albumin in the blood, a high level of cholesterol in the blood and swelling, triggering a hypercoagulable state and increasing chances of clot formation. Other less common causes include hypercoagulable state, cancer, kidney transplantation, Behcet syndrome, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome or blunt trauma to the back or abdomen.[3] Treatment of RVT mainly focuses on preventing further blood clots in the kidneys and maintaining stable renal function. The use of anticoagulants has become the standard treatment in treating this abnormality.[2] Membranous glomerulonephritis, the most common cause for nephrotic syndrome in adults, peaks in people ages 40–60 years old and it is twice as likely to occur in men than in women. Since nephrotic syndrome is the most common cause of RVT, people over 40 years old and men are most at risk to develop a renal vein thrombosis.


Signs and symptoms
Aside from the occasional flank or lower back pain caused by a sudden clot in the major veins to the kidneys, RVT produces few symptoms. Some patients may not display any symptoms while other patients may experience bloody urine, decrease in urine output, edema and worsening proteinuria. Usually the diagnoses of RVT is first made when a nephrotic syndrome patient experiences a pulmonary embolism or a sudden decrease in renal function or renal failure. These symptoms may vary in duration since a blood clot can resolve itself, but precautions should be taken to prevent the migration of the clot to other parts of the body. The most severe complication of RVT is a pulmonary embolism, caused by a clot, also called a thrombus, that originates from the renal vein or any other vein in the body and migrates to the pulmonary artery. A pulmonary embolism is a serious condition because; it can damage the lungs due to pulmonary hypertension and cause low blood oxygen, damaging other organs in the body. This condition can cause death if left untreated; about 30% percent of patients who have a pulmonary embolism will die, usually within one hour.[4][5]

Infants and young children experiencing dehydration induced RVT, may experience dehydration symptoms (dry mouth, low urine output, loss of skin turgidity) as while as vomiting, nausea and fever, and the usual RVT symptoms like flank pain, blood in the urine, anaemia, edema, enlarged kidneys and kidney failure.

Diagnosis

CT showing dilatation and thrombosis of the left renal vein in a patient with nutcracker syndrome
There are no laboratory tests used to diagnose RVT.

Observing the patient's symptoms, medical history and imaging remain the fundamental source for diagnosing RVT. Imaging is used to detect the presence of a blood clot. In an abnormal kidney with RVT, a blood clot is present in the renal vein. In cases where the renal vein is suddenly and/or fully blocked, the kidneys will enlarge, reaching its maximum size within a week. An ultrasound imaging can be used to observe and track the size of the kidneys in RVT patients. Ultrasound is not efficient for use in detecting blood flow in the renal veins and artery. Instead a color doppler ultrasound may be used to detect renal blood flow. It is most commonly used to detect RVT in patients who have undergone renal transplantation. CT angiography is currently the top choice in diagnosing RVT. It is non-invasive, relatively cheap and fast with high accuracy. CT scanning can be used to detect renal enlargement, renal tumors, blood flow and other renal pathologies. An alternative is magnetic resonance angiography or MRA. It is non-invasive, fast and avoids radiation (unlike a CT scan) but it is relatively expensive. MRA produces detailed images of the renal blood flow, vesicle walls, the kidneys and any surrounding tissue. An inferior venocavography with selective venography can be used to rule out the diagnoses of RVT